README.md, before:

vimrc for neovim
===

![vim terminal screenshot](/screenshots/vimrc.png)

Opinionated vimrc files with three goals:

* Be pragmatic than "right"
* Keep it maintainable
* Make it easy to troubleshoot

Prerequisite
---

I minimized code that checks compatibility to keep it clean.

* Neovim >= 0.6.0

Features
---

* Modularized vimrc files
* Blocked sections
* Plugin code locality
* Utility functions and unit tests written in [Vader](https://github.com/junegunn/vader.vim)

Installation
---

Caveat: the code keeps evolving and is highly customized to my workflow.

```sh
# After cloning the project to $PROJECT_HOME
cd ~
ln -s $PROJECT_HOME/vimrc .vimrc
ln -s $PROJECT_HOME/vim .vim
ln -s $PROJECT_HOME/ideavimrc .ideavimrc
```

Development Environment
---

### Tools

* macOS
* Linux (only for server management)
* iTerm2 (no MacVim)
* IntelliJ
* Git / GitHub

### Languages

Languages that I mainly write with vim:

* Scala
* Python
* Clojure
* Lua
* vimscript
* bash script
* fish script
* Markdown

Project Structure
---

```vim
.
├── vimrc                   " RC root file that soures vimrc files in the 'vim/rc' directory
├── ideavimrc               " IntelliJ IdeaVim RC file
└── vim
   ├── rc                   " Modularized vimrc files
   │  ├── setoptions.vim    " Setting vim options
   │  ├── statusline.vim    " Setting statuline
   │  ├── autocmd.vim       " General autocommands
   │  ├── mappings.vim      " General mappings
   │  ├── colorscheme.vim   " Colorscheme and highlights
   │  ├── functions.vim     " Functions and commands that can be used while using vim
   │  ├── utility.vim       " Utility functions that can be used writing vimscript
   │  ├── test.vader        " Test code that tests functions of utility.vim
   │  ├── plug.vim          " Plug root that sources plugins.vim and devplugins.vim conditionally
   │  ├── plugins.vim       " Plugins and related mappings and configuration
   │  └── devplugins.vim    " Plugins and related mappings and configuration for coding (only loaded on macOS)
   ├── colors               " Directory with colorscheme files
   ├── backup               " Directory with a README file. Backup files are git ignored.
   ├── swap                 " Directory with a README file. Swap files are git ignored.
   ├── after
   │  └── syntax
   │     └── markdown.vim   " Customized markdown syntax
   └── syntax               " Customized git syntax to make it work better for my workflow
      ├── git.vim
      └── gitcommit.vim
```

Plugin Code Locality with Plug
---

### Lua `require`

Each section in `plugins.vim` and `devplugins.vim` has one or more [Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) commands and related mappings and configuration. A helper callback function is used for code that has to be run after `plug#end()`, e.g., the Lua `require()` function has to run after `plug#end()` since Lua modules can be loaded after `runtimepath` are set which is done by the `end()` function.

[VOoM](https://github.com/vim-scripts/VOoM) is used to show outlines.

![plugin code locality](/screenshots/plugin-code-locality.png)

### Highlights

`highlight` commands have to be executed after a colorscheme command and they should be executed again when the colorscheme is changed. To achieve this, `highlight` commands are in an autocommands following [this advice](https://gist.github.com/romainl/379904f91fa40533175dfaec4c833f2f).

For example,

```vim
Plug 'dstein64/nvim-scrollview'

function! s:scrollview_highlights()
  highlight ScrollView ctermbg=159 guibg=LightCyan
endfunction

augroup ScrollViewColors
  autocmd!
  autocmd ColorScheme * call s:scrollview_highlights()
augroup END
```

Mapping tree
---

This is the structure of normal mode mappings. This is used to structurally manage mappings and easily find empty slots for new mappings. This is not an exhaustive list.

The the [Fzf :Maps command](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim#commands) and the [which-key plugin](https://github.com/folke/which-key.nvim) can be used to search the details of the current mappings.

### Ctrl

* `<C-q>`: go to the previous window (the same as `<c-w>p`)
* `<C-k/j>`: move a line up/down
* `<C-h/l>`: indent left/right

### Numbers

* `(numbers)<leader>`: select windows
* `(numbers)<BS>`: close windows
* `(numbers),`: select tabs

### `<Leader>`

* (numbers): select windows
* a: yank all
* b: open URL in a browser (it works for a `Plug` line as well)
* c: Copilot
* d
  * d: delete all
  * o, h, l: diff
* e: etc
  * numbers: copy file paths
  * u: undotree
  * s: spell!
* f: Fzf related mappings
* g: Git related mappings
* h
* i: `set nolist!` (show invisible characters)
* j: Easymotion
* k: Easymotion
* l: `tabnew`
* m
  * Toggle Voom / Tagbar
  * Markdown
* n: `noh`
* o: Octo (in `device_local.vim`)
* p: Plug
* q: close window
* r
  * re: rename
  * rl, ro, rr: ReplaceWithRegister related mappings
* s: coc related mappings
* t: nvim terminal related mappings
* u: `update`
* v
  * vimrc related mapping
  * vader related mapping
* w: maping for windows
* x
* y
* z: Conjure

### Etc.

* `UP/DOWN`: move to previous/next tab

License
---

MIT

Commit message:

README: tweak texts, add vimrc cartoon and blog link

README.md, after:

vimrc for neovim
===

![vim terminal screenshot](/images/vimrc.png)

Opinionated vimrc files with three goals:

* Be pragmatic than "right".
* Keep it maintainable.
* Make it easy to troubleshoot.

Please check out my blog post [Learnings after 500 commits to my vimrc](https://iamsang.com/en/2022/04/13/vimrc/) if you want to know more about my vimrc.

![vimrc cartoon](/images/cartoon-vimrc.png)

Prerequisite
---

I minimized code that checks compatibility to keep it clean.

* Neovim >= 0.6.0

Features
---

* Modularized vimrc files
* Blocked sections
* Plugin code locality
* Utility functions and unit tests written in [Vader](https://github.com/junegunn/vader.vim)

Installation
---

Caveat: the code keeps evolving and is highly customized to my workflow.

```sh
# After cloning the project to $PROJECT_HOME
cd ~
ln -s $PROJECT_HOME/vimrc .vimrc
ln -s $PROJECT_HOME/vim .vim
ln -s $PROJECT_HOME/ideavimrc .ideavimrc
```

Development Environment
---

### Tools

* macOS
* Linux (only for server management)
* iTerm2 (no MacVim)
* IntelliJ
* Git / GitHub

### Languages

Languages that I mainly write with vim:

* Scala
* Python
* Clojure
* Lua
* vimscript
* bash script
* fish script
* Markdown

Project Structure
---

```vim
.
├── vimrc                   " RC root file that soures vimrc files in the 'vim/rc' directory
├── ideavimrc               " IntelliJ IdeaVim RC file
└── vim
   ├── rc                   " Modularized vimrc files
   │  ├── setoptions.vim    " Setting vim options
   │  ├── statusline.vim    " Setting statuline
   │  ├── autocmd.vim       " General autocommands
   │  ├── mappings.vim      " General mappings
   │  ├── colorscheme.vim   " Colorscheme and highlights
   │  ├── functions.vim     " Functions and commands that can be used while using vim
   │  ├── utility.vim       " Utility functions that can be used writing vimscript
   │  ├── test.vader        " Test code that tests functions of utility.vim
   │  ├── plug.vim          " Plug root that sources plugins.vim and devplugins.vim conditionally
   │  ├── plugins.vim       " Plugins and related mappings and configuration
   │  └── devplugins.vim    " Plugins and related mappings and configuration for coding (only loaded on macOS)
   ├── colors               " Directory with colorscheme files
   ├── backup               " Directory with a README file. Backup files are git ignored.
   ├── swap                 " Directory with a README file. Swap files are git ignored.
   ├── after
   │  └── syntax
   │     └── markdown.vim   " Customized markdown syntax
   └── syntax               " Customized git syntax to make it work better for my workflow
      ├── git.vim
      └── gitcommit.vim
```

Plugin Code Locality with Plug
---

### Lua `require`

Each section in `plugins.vim` and `devplugins.vim` has one or more [Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) commands and related mappings and configuration. A helper callback function is used for code that has to be run after `plug#end()`, e.g., the Lua `require()` function has to run after `plug#end()` since Lua modules can be loaded after `runtimepath` are set which is done by the `end()` function.

[VOoM](https://github.com/vim-scripts/VOoM) is used to show outlines.

![plugin code locality](/images/plugin-code-locality.png)

### Highlights

`highlight` commands have to be executed after a colorscheme command and they should be executed again when the colorscheme is changed. To achieve this, `highlight` commands are in an autocommands following [this advice](https://gist.github.com/romainl/379904f91fa40533175dfaec4c833f2f).

For example,

```vim
Plug 'dstein64/nvim-scrollview'

function! s:scrollview_highlights()
  highlight ScrollView ctermbg=159 guibg=LightCyan
endfunction

augroup ScrollViewColors
  autocmd!
  autocmd ColorScheme * call s:scrollview_highlights()
augroup END
```

Mapping tree
---

The lists below are the structure of normal mode mappings. I use them to structurally manage mappings and easily find empty slots for new mappings. They are not exhaustive.

[The Fzf :Maps command](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf.vim#commands) and [the which-key plugin](https://github.com/folke/which-key.nvim) can be used to search the details of the current mappings.

### Ctrl

* `<C-q>`: go to the previous window (the same as `<c-w>p`)
* `<C-k/j>`: move a line up/down
* `<C-h/l>`: indent left/right

### Numbers

* `(numbers)<leader>`: select windows
* `(numbers)<BS>`: close windows
* `(numbers),`: select tabs

### `<Leader>`

* (numbers): select windows
* a: yank all
* b: open URL in a browser (it works for a `Plug` line as well)
* c: Copilot
* d
  * d: delete all
  * o, h, l: diff
* e: etc
  * numbers: copy file paths
  * u: undotree
  * s: spell!
* f: Fzf related mappings
* g: Git related mappings
* h
* i: `set nolist!` (show invisible characters)
* j: Easymotion
* k: Easymotion
* l: `tabnew`
* m
  * Toggle Voom / Tagbar
  * Markdown
* n: `noh`
* o: Octo (in `device_local.vim`)
* p: Plug
* q: close window
* r
  * re: rename
  * rl, ro, rr: ReplaceWithRegister related mappings
* s: coc related mappings
* t: nvim terminal related mappings
* u: `update`
* v
  * vimrc related mapping
  * vader related mapping
* w: maping for windows
* x
* y
* z: Conjure

### Etc.

* `UP/DOWN`: move to previous/next tab

License
---

MIT
